>> Melkey: Let's quickly talk
about arrays and slices.
When individuals think of an array,
they think of a list,
and I think that's
an appropriate definition.
It stores a bunch of values, right?
An array could be fairly versatile,
it's a very powerful data structure.
And slices might be a new terminology for
some individuals,
depending on their background.
For example, in Python,
an array is dynamic.
You can continuously append to an array,
and Python just gives you a thumbs up and
smiles all the way through.
That's not necessarily the same case for
Go and other programming language, okay?
So If you want to declare a array,
we're going to declare the name, so
numbers are short form notation, and the
syntax for an array is square brackets,
and then the capacity or
length of this array here, so five, right?
This is telling the compiler we expect
this array to hold five values.
The following argument or
the following definitions,
what type R can that array hold?
In Go, we cannot hold multi types in
an array, you can only have one array that
holds ints, one array that holds structs,
one array that holds strings, etc, etc.
So we can define it like so.
So we have our numbers,
it's gonna hold five, and
we can just Populate these with ten,
20, 30, 40, and 50, okay?
If you try to put 60, the compiler says
index five is out of balance because it
understands that this numbers
array can only hold five ints so
we're gonna adhere to that.
It's completely fine if we don't have
the full five matching the full capacity,
we can append to it or
assign a more appropriate definition,
be assigning that last slot to a value,
but
here we'll just declare numbers as
the full array of integers, okay?
And just for funsies, I know this can
be annoying, but if I put a string,
obviously, the composite
cannot use string, all right?
>> Melkey: So that's an array, and
arrays cannot change once it defined,
it can only hold five, right?
So I cannot add a six value to my numbers,
or I cannot do numbers five=60.
And there's no way you can change this.
Once the array is defined and set,
that's the only capacity you can do.
You can change values in the array, right?
You can reassign the zeroth index, right?
If I wanted to, to 60, that's all good,
everyone's happy about that.
But adding more capacity to
the array is not possible,
it's at definition time.
Okay, we can print this array,
we can do format, we can do print F,
I'll show the format specifier for this.
We say this is our array, and
this would actually be modulo V.
We can put a new line and
type in our numbers array like so.
And see we have our array 10,
20, 30, 40, and 50.
Okay, so
we can access values of the array.
So we can do like zero to
access the zero value,
we get the length of the array, right?
So we can do something like
the keyword length, and
type in numbers to get the length.
So, there's a few ways we
can bounce around our array.
These are typical functions you
would see in most implemented
languages of how to navigate the array.
So don't think there's
any hidden secrets there.
If you want to access kind of the last
value, maybe one other thing of any array,
you can do something like format,
just print the line.
This is the last value.
So if you wanna access the last value,
you can do numbers access it,
and do something like this.
So this hopefully would print 50, and
there you go, there's the last value 50.
Cool, you could do one other trick,
I'll quickly show this.
It's an array with size
determined at initialization.
I personally have never
seen this useful ever but
I'll just show you, numbers in it.
So, instead of putting a five here,
you can explicitly do like this.
It's like I personally don't truly
see how useful this could be.
But, instead of writing explicitly five
if you know on initialization, again,
how many values can be,
you can just write them all out and
just put the three ellipses there.
But again, for me,
I don't see too much value in that.
I'm gonna comment it out.
Yeah, so those are arrays.
You can have multidimensional arrays too,
so like a matrix.
I'll quickly show this before moving on.
You can have a matrix and
it goes column row.
So, something like two, three, and
then you can initialize it with the type,
and then individual brackets here, right?
So, if I were to just have the function
like so, this would not be valid Go,
it would not be specified on
the correct column index.
You have to put an additional curly
braces followed by the comma cuz
the compile yells at you and
then following another one like so.
We can put some values here,
we can put one, two, and three, and
then we can put four, five, and six.
We can save this, and
then right here, we can do format.
We can use our Printf with
our format specifier.
This is our Matrix.
I'm gonna do modular V, break the line and
put the matrix like so.
>> Melkey: So there you go.
All right, again, just some, I guess,
derivatives on an array type,
I just wanna make sure I show as many
things I could think of with a raise.